a scenario on DAML script and DAML REPL. (#43)
digital-asset/daml-katacoda: testing-daml-models/daml-scripts/1_first_script.md

The first thing you need to do when writing a DAML script is to include the DAML script package in
your dependencies. 

- First, **open the IDE and wait for it to load**
- After that, click on `daml.yaml`{{open}} to open the `daml.yaml` file.
- Add the line

  <pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
    - daml-script

>   </pre>

Reviewer: Was too indented when I tried it.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56260209/81645250-8e49e980-9429-11ea-994e-0435d492ffa3.png)

Author: fixed.

  under the `dependencies` stanza. 

Now open the `daml/User.daml`{{open}} file and just before the module declaration line add the
language pragma

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
{-# LANGUAGE ApplicativeDo #-}
</pre>

> and just after the module declaration add the `Daml.Script` library to the imports. Your module

Reviewer: Maybe add the `import Daml.Script` snippet as "Copy to Clipboard"

Author: done.

> and just after the module declaration add the `Daml.Script` library to the imports. Your module

Reviewer: Maybe add the explanation for the pragma directly here. I head to jump up and down to figure out the explanation.
```suggestion
and just after the module declaration add the `Daml.Script` library to the imports. The `ApplicativeDo` language pragma is a trick to be able to reuse the `do` notation you already know from DAML scenarios and upgrade blocks in choices. Your module
```

Reviewer 2: Looking at your code you actually don’t make use of multi-command submissions so you could also just remove `ApplicativeDo`.

Author: That's true, I think it's better to leave it in, otherwise, people will run into a tricky situation when they run into an error they won't understand.

Author: moved the explanations up.

header will look like this

<pre>
{-# LANGUAGE ApplicativeDo #-}

module User where

import Daml.Script

...
</pre>

The `Daml.Script` library provides you with all the script functions you're going to need. Take a
look at its [documentation](https://docs.daml.com/daml-script/daml-script-docs.html)! The
`ApplicativeDo` language pragma is a trick to be able to reuse the `do` notation you already know
from DAML scenarios and upgrade blocks in choices.

You can now write you're first script. Append the following declaration to `daml/User.daml`:

<pre class="file" data-filename="daml/User.daml" data-target="append">

initialize: Script ()
initialize = do
  allocatePartyWithHint "operator" (PartyIdHint "operator")
  debug "done!"
</pre>

This script just allocates a new party on the ledger. 

1. The `Script ()` type tells you that this function is a script that doesn't return anything. 

> 1. Depending on the ledger, you can't choose party identifiers at will, but you can give it a

Reviewer 2: I think it might be useful to point out that this will allocate a new party and not just give you back the party id of an existing party. So you should only use this for initialization and for testing. If you are interacting with a ledger that is already running you almost certainly want to use a party that existed before.

Author: added a note.

> 1. Depending on the ledger, you can't choose party identifiers at will, but you can give it a
>    display name and an identifier hint. This is accomplished with the `allocatePartyWithHint`
>    function. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. By using `allocatePartyWithHint` we are assigning a display name to a party (a human readable name and *not* an identifier, more info [here](https://docs.daml.com/concepts/identity-and-package-management.html#identity-management)) as well as a hint that can be considered as an equivalent to the party identifier (note that more info [here](https://docs.daml.com/daml-script/index.html#using-daml-script-for-ledger-initialization). The exact behavior of hint is ledger dependant)
```

Wanted to add more explanation on hints and display name, not sure if what I wrote is the best. Just a suggestion.

Reviewer 2: The hint is not equivalent to the party identifier in general. It is up to the ledger what exactly it does with the hint. Sandbox will use the hint directly as the party id and fail if there is already a party with that id which makes it somewhat convenient. Other ledgers will start with the hint and append a random identifier and some even just ignore the party id hint.

Reviewer: Thnx for the pointer @cocreature 😄Updated my comment.

Author: added some clarification and link to docu.
